Accomplishments
1 Power and Efficiency Analysis of individual LN features
2 Validation of Tesla projections for CT against Si for GKBv4 and Dhrystone workloads
3 Significant enhancements to modeling capabilities along three different vectors:
   Statistical Regression techniques
   Identifying new counters and correcting misbehaving counters to improve accuracy
   Widget scaling capability at any depth of design hierarchy with support for merging, additon or deletion of subunits for N+1 architecture
4 Powerful and robust power analysis environment using python-based tool sets for interactive visualization of large datasets
   Capabilities to summarize large datasets with support for detailed analysis and views for specific datasets
5 
Creativity/Innovation:

Challenge/Empowerment:
  The technical and management leadership at SARC set a goal and mandate for the PACT team to deliver a robust architectural power model for Lion (LNNV) CPU and actually use it to drive LN POR feature analysis and decision making in step with performance studies done for the same. As a co-owner of this responsibility, I envisioned and architected a framework to not only enable very rapid model generation using necessary inputs gathered from FIAT and RTL sims but also to have the ability to analyze and study the power model's predicted power results from many different aspects. With these capabilities it was possible to analyze, view and share with RTL leads, performance architects and RTL designers the impact of any given feature on power or power efficiency across all workloads of interest, quickly compare the power contribution of each unit across all workloads based on one or more collection of features, observe the migration of workloads across high, medium and low power consumption quartiles. The power analysis toolkit helped build a consolidated database of unit level power consumption per feature or aggregate of features across all available workloads used for performance studies which could then be loaded into the Pandas data analysis framework to enable the above kind of investigations. The Tesla power model for LNNV met the expectations mandated by SARC leadership to deliver power and efficiency analysis for over 12-15 architectural feautures. Though more work remains, for the first time Tesla and associated power analysis tools have begun to proliferate the architectural as well as design execution phases of CPU design cycle.
  Speed/Crisis Awareness:
  A prominent example of prioritizing deliverables and doing whatever it takes to meet critical project deadlines is the successful completion of estimating power impact of 6 CT features in a 4-week time period to close out the POR decisions for CT. With an intense and productive collaborative effort with DA team for model building support, with FAME team for FIAT support and RTL power team for widget scaling support, I was able to successfully complete the analysis of 3 major features: Integer RF read port sharing, NMUL 1-cycle latency reduction and L1I cache size doubling. The feautures were evaluated for power impact for key high power workloads to identify if they pushed them over the power limit, impact to geekbench score and identifying the best benefitting workloads. It was culminated by formal presentation to the respective architectural leads and a consolidated presentation to the project execution leadership team within the specified deadline. The three features delegated to me recieved a 'GO' recommendation from a power perspective and were eventually accepted as POR features.
  We continued a similar pattern of preparedness for LN feature evaluation after the successful CT work increased the visibility, awareness and expectations from architects, RTL design and power analysis teams about Tesla's capabilities and applicability. From a core level modelling approach we refined our methodology to developing unit level and even subunit level models based on the experience and learning about the difficulties in scaling the model for widget level changes in the microarchitecture.
  Similarly we have successfully executed the expectations of the project leadership team to deliver power and power efficiency analysis of many more features for LN (12 so far and more planned compared to 6 in CT) with a slightly longer timeframe for POR decisions but with more expectations about Tesla. For the first time we have now integrated the Tesla model into FIAT so that power results are available alongside with performance results so that any feature being evaluated can be considered in the context of power and power efficiency impact.
Teamwork:
  I have worked very effectively as a team member within my team to own major responsibilities associated with building a robust and effective architectural power model usable for early design exploration and evaluation of next generation CPU architecture and microarchitecture. My team relies on me for software development effort to help build tools that enhance our productivity and help deliver impactful results with a relatively tiny team size. An example of this is the synergy with my team colleague who worked on implementing the variety of statistical data modelling algorithms in the model generation R-script while I did the tool chain to generate the necessary power and event activity input data, the model accuracy evaluation infrastructure and the feature evaluation framework that was integrated into Python notebooks to create lucid, interactive and engaging documentation of Tesla results from feature analysis and other power analysis deep dives.
  I have also collaborated with cross functional teams such as Design Methodology (owners of Spear and Dyno tools), PAVE (FIAT-RTL correlation) and RTL power teams to carry out my assignments. My collaboration with NEXT team to benefit from their data science expertise seeded our exploration of several statistical techniques such as Ridge regression, OLS regression, PSR regression etc.

Accomplishments:
	Description: Developed and Applied Tesla power model for Cheetah (CT) power evaluation for 6 key microarchitecture features and presented findings to RTL leads, Design teams and project leads
	Impact: Owned evaluation of three features: L1I cache doubling, Integer RF RD port sharing and IMUL 1-cycle latency reduction. Successfully completed the assignment in an aggressive POR closure schedule with inclusion of hardware widget scaling. Collaborated with RTL power team to estimate widget scaling. All three features recieved a 'GO' recommendation from power perspective and were eventually included as POR after analysis from performance, area and schedule analysis. This was the first application of the architectural power model for CPU feature evaluation and was the starting point to the goal of having the capability in SPA to predict impact on performance and power on an equal footing for next generation architectural exploration.
	Description: Developed a reasonably accurate unit level model for principle units of CPU in preparation for Lion POR decision inputs from a power perspective with lots of research and experimentation into statistical modelling techniques and finer grained modeling approaches using larger set of FIAT stats.
	Impact: Developed skills and expertise in data analysis techniques and built infrastructure to visualize and present results. Subunit level modelling approach showed large sensitivity to training and validating sets in the model. A unit level modelling approach provided a good compromise on reducing the sensitivity while preserving enough low level granularity to enable widget scaling to support evaluation of micro architectural changes.
	Description: Developed and Applied Tesla power model for Lion (LN) power evaluation for expanded (12 so far and more in pipeline) feature set
	Impact: An enhanced Tesla power model using unit level models has been developed that has been integrated into FIAT. This capability enabled the PACT team to provide detailed power and power efficiency impact on a per feature basis and on an aggregate basis. We expanded the scope of analysis to evaluate 12 features so far and more are in the pipeline before the POR for Lion is finalized. This is the first time that power and performance results for any study are available simultaneously to evaluate a feature from both these factors.
